<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Scopes</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h2>Scopes</h2>

<p>Scope of this document: for client and server, OAuth 2/OIDC only.</p>

<p>OAuth 2 supports custom scopes for servers. </p>

<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">scopes</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Top-level tag. All requested scopes reside within this.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">scope</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">A single scope. If on the server, this tell the server to pass this through
            to a custom handler. If on the client, this scope will be requested.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">indexPath</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Location of system-built indices.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<p>The basic supported scopes in OA4MP are </p>
<ul>
    <li>openid - this is required in ever request or the server <b>must reject the request</b></li>
    <li>email - returns the user's email address, if available.</li>
    <li>profile - returns information about the user's profile</li>
    <li>edu.uiuc.ncsa.myproxy.getcert - this requests a certificate. If the client omits this, then attempts to get
        a certificate will be rejected. However, requests to the user info endpoint will still be processed.
    </li>
</ul>

<h2>Server examples</h2>
<h3>Example 1.</h3>

<pre>
&lt;service name="default" address="https://myservice.org:8443/oauth"&gt;
   &lt;scopes&gt;
       &lt;scope&gt;custom.scope&lt;/scope&gt;
   &lt;/scopes&gt;
    &lt;!-- other stuff.. --&gt;
&lt;/service&gt;
</pre>
<p>This informs the server that the scope with tag "custom.scope" should be passed through to whatever custom handler
has been specified. If this were not configured, the server would reject any request with this scope.</p>

<h2>Client examples</h2>
<h3>Example 1.</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;client name="my-cfg"&gt;
    &lt;scopes&gt;
        &lt;scope&gt;custom.scope&lt;/scope&gt;
    &lt;/scopes&gt;
        &lt;!-- other stuff.. --&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
The client will include the custom scope in requests to the server. If this is omitted, then the scope is not added
and whatever claims that are associated with this scope will not be made.

<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>